Ideas for African Startups

We have plenty of resources in africa(mostly agricultural resources)

sectors in need of development 
    Transport 
    Waste 
    Electricity
    Shelter 
    Unemployment
    Educational
    Agricultural/Food
    Informational

All these sectors require alot of development to be done especially in cameroon

Transport 
    ---
Waste 
    waste disposal needs to be ameliorated but due to the reliability of such a system, a startup without prior investment can't take on this task 
Electricity
    the electrical domain could be ameliorate with new ways such as reneawable energy and much more

shelter 
    digital renter 

unemployment 
    njorku 

Educational 
    Students need to communicate more, they require a plateform which brings them together to solve their differences(facebook groups, teachers, friends)
    To develop this sector, i need a website with well documented topics and community based contributions
Agricultural/Food
    how can this be ameliorated with tech?
Informational 
    this sector is obviously one that is primordial and very consequential, getting advised info in a timely manner is detrimental to one's success, it helps him make better choices and puts him on the right tracks towards his future. Most importantly, knowledge is power


Since this is launch by facebook, i obviously can't come up with a life changing technology in a day so lets analyse the strengths of facebook
what makes facebook, facebook?

its the community, sharing information for the world to see, it tries to bring the world together. 

My idea! uber 
    developing an app where you get to find every skill you might be searching for in the people all around you. I envision a plateform where, every user signs up with particular skills and over a quick search you are able to get into contact with that person for either professional or personal reasons.
    In a country like this one where the work force is limited, collaboration is the more important 
    i am considering a more physical skill set locator, where you get to employ skills which can be at your disposal. Most plateform focus on online help or announcement based search. Practically, i want a user to be able to find all the computer guys in his region and decide on the one he wants to call in. People will be able to get help/work easily
    e.g 
    Finder
        find shoemender 
        find tailor
    predefined skill sets can be made 
    Informational 
        categories 
            News/Entertainment/Locator/Employment/Shopping/Events/
    this will permit informations related to particular skill sets to reach the targeted audiences easily 
    Suggestive cards will have to be implemented

Problem 
    i find that in facebook and other social media, there might be thousand of usefull information out there but it doesn't matter if you don't even know what you are looking for.

I will need to explore other models like 
linkedIn
    skills and job based 
Afribaba
    people and post information to reach out to others 
Upwork
    jobs for skills 
Tinder 
    location based search 